README.md, before:

dCache View
===========

### Table of Contents

1. [Introduction](#Introduction)
2. [Getting Started](#Getting-Started)
    - [Prerequisites](#Prerequisites)
    - [Build](#Build)
    - [Update](#Update)
3. [Features](#Features)
    - [List of available Features]()
    - [Upcoming Features]()
    - [How to request a Feature]()
4. [How to ...](#How-To)
    - [make dCache View aware of the OpenID set up](docs/how-tos/open-id.md)
5. [Versioning](#Versioning)
6. [Contributors](#Contributors)
7. [How to contribute](#How-to-contribute)
8. [License](#License)
9. [Acknowledgments](#Acknowledgments)


## Introduction

dCache View is a web application client for [dCache](https://dcache.org). Basically, it 
provide user interface for dCache to the end users, which enable users to interact with 
dCache storage system effortlessly. 

To see how dCache View look like and to have a feel about the application, try our live 
test machine called [Prometheus](https://prometheus.desy.de:3880). This test machine is 
a small dCache instance running the latest development build of dCache with the latest 
released version of dCache View.

## Getting Started

dCache View is part of [Frontend service](https://www.dcache.org/manuals/Book-5.0/config-frontend.shtml) 
in dCache. It uses the RESTful API in the frontend for most of the namespace operation. 
Also, it uses [WebDAV services](https://www.dcache.org/manuals/Book-5.0/config-frontend.shtml) 
for macaroon, read operation, write operation etc. 

A running dCache instance comes with dCache View. If you are running a system test, you can 
skip this process, since the default layout in system test come with frontend services running 
on different ports. In this case, dCache View will be running in these following: 
http://localhost:3880/ and https://localhost:3881/.

However, if you are interested in other packages apart from the system test, enabling dCache View 
is as simple as starting or adding a frontend service/door to your dCache domain. Say for example, 
you have a single domain called `dCacheDomain`, inside your layout file, which should be located 
at `/etc/dcache/layouts/<name-of-your-layout-file>.conf`. To add the frontend service just add the 
following: `[dCacheDomain/frontend]` also don't forget to add the WebDAV door, as pointed earlier 
dCache View relies on it. Finally, restart your dCache instance. Hence, your layout file should 
look like this:

```text
[dCacheDomain]
.
.
.

[dCacheDomain/webdav]
.
.
.

[dCacheDomain/frontend]

.
.
.
```

By default, dCache View is served from port 3880 but this is configurable 
(see [dCache book](https://www.dcache.org/manuals/book.shtml) for full details on what and how 
to configure all the necessary properties for both webDAV and frontend door).


Ideally, the top of all the supported branches in dCache View [repository](https://github.com/dCache/dcache-view) 
are production ready. If you are brave and want to live on the hedge or fiddle around with 
the source code, you can run the latest version of dCache View but first you need to make 
sure you have [these](#Prerequisites) ready. Next, follow the instruction [here on how to build](#Build) 
it and lastly, deploy it to your system by doing [this](#Update).

#### Prerequisites

- A running dCache instance (see https://www.dcache.org/manuals/Book-5.0/install.shtml on how to install 
    and start a small dCache instance)
- **Git** - see https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git on how to install git.
     Your system might have git already installed, check by running the following command: `git --version` 
     from the *terminal*. If you have it installed (or successful install), the result should look similar to:
     ```
     git version 2.10.1 (Apple Git-78)
     ```
- **Maven** - see https://maven.apache.org/install.html on how to install maven.
    After installation (or before installation to check if you have maven installed already), confirm 
    that this is successful, open a *terminal* and typed `mvn -v`. You should see something like:
    ```
    Apache Maven 3.3.9 (bb52d8502b132ec0a5a3f4c09453c07478323dc5; 2015-11-10T17:41:47+01:00)
    Maven home: /opt/maven-3.3.9
    Java version: 1.8.0_181, vendor: Oracle Corporation
    Java home: /Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk1.8.0_181.jdk/Contents/Home/jre
    Default locale: en_GB, platform encoding: UTF-8
    OS name: "mac os x", version: "10.13.6", arch: "x86_64", family: "mac"
    ```
- Get dCache View source code, use either: 
    ```git
    git clone https://github.com/dCache/dcache-view.git
    ```
    or download the zip file [here](https://github.com/dCache/dcache-view/archive/master.zip)

#### Build

Once you've make sure all the prerequisites requirements are met, open your *terminal* and do 
the following:

- change directory to the directory where you forked/downloaded dCache View: 
    ```sbtshell
    cd <path-to-directory>/dcache-view
    ```
- build 
    ```sbtshell
    mvn clean package
    ```
    
#### Update

After a successful build, directory name `target` will be created inside `dcache-view` folder. We are 
interested in these following files:

    - index.html
    - robots.txt
    - bower_components/
    - elements/
    - favicons/
    - scripts/
    - style/
    
How to update your dCache instant will depends on where it is, if it local, it is as simple as copying
those files listed above to `/usr/share/dcache/dcache-view/` or it equivalent. To copy these files and 
directories from the `target` directory to `/usr/share/dcache/dcache-view/`, in the *terminal* typed:
  ```sbtshell
  rm -rf /usr/share/dcache/dcache-view/* && mv -v <path-to-dir>/dcache-view/target/* /usr/share/dcache/dcache-view/
  ``` 
Remembered, this path: `/usr/share/dcache/dcache-view/` depends on your installation and the package 
you installed. For example, in the system test, this is equivalent to: 
```
<path-to-dcache-directory>/packages/system-test/target/dcache/share/dcache-view/
```

In the case where dCache is running on a remote machine, please use one of the method described 
[here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Common_questions/Upload_files_to_a_web_server) 
to deploy or replaced the files listed above with the newly generated ones.

## Features



#### Available

Here are list of features available inside dCache View
<table>
    <tr>
        <th>#</th>
        <th>Feature</th>
        <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>1.</td>
        <td align="center">
            <p>Listing</p>
            <p>&</p>
            <p>Navigation</p>
        </td>
        <td align="justify">
            See the content of a directory with the possibilities of viewing the sub directories
            as well. Double-click any directory or right-click on it and select <b>open</b> from
            the context menu to view its contents.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>2.</td>
        <td align="center">Viewer</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Quickly see the content of a file inside dCache View with built-in viewer. To view
            the content of a file, simply click on it and right-click or just right-click and
            select <b>view</b>, <b>play</b> or <b>open</b> (this depends on the type of file).
            <p>At the moment, you can view:</p>
            <div>
                <ul>
                    <li>
                        Portable Document Format file, that is, files with .pdf extension
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        video files with these file extension:
                        <code>.ogg, .mpeg, .webm and .mp4</code>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        image files with these file extension:
                        <code>.gif, .jpeg, .png, .x-icon and svg+xml</code>
                    </li>
                </ul>
            </div>
            <small>More file mime-types will be supported later.</small>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>3.</td>
        <td align="center">
            <p>Authentication</p>
            <p>&</p>
            <p>Authorisation</p>
        </td>
        <td align="justify">
            There are four options of authentication that are currently supported, these
            are: certificate, openID connect, macaroon and username+password.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>4.</td>
        <td align="center">File Metadata</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Get more details and information about a file or directory properties.
            To view the file Metadata, right-click the file and select <b>View details</b>
            from the context menu. You can also select the file and click info button.
            The file metadata dashboard will be open with the file's properties inside
            it, user can decide to view it in raw or formatted form.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>5.</td>
        <td align="center">Create directory</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Create an empty directory. Either by clicking the create button or
            right-click inside the directory that will serve as the parent and select
            <b>create new directory</b> from the context menu.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>6.</td>
        <td align="center">Upload</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Upload file/s or directory/ies (depending on the browser) into a directory.
            This can be done by either dragging the file/s and dropping it into the
            desired directory or by using the upload button, which allow user to select
            one or more files from their device storage.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>7.</td>
        <td align="center">Move</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Change the parent of one or more files by either dragging the selected file
            into the destination directory (which will be the new parent), or by clicking
            the move button, which will be shown only if file/s are selected.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>8.</td>
        <td align="center">Rename</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Rename a file or folder. Right-click on the file and select <b>Rename</b>
            from the context menu. When you rename a file, only the first part of the
            name of the file is selected, not the file extension (the part after the
            last .) and you usually do not want to change that. If you need to change
            the extension as well, select the entire file name and change it. The
            following are worth noting:
            <ol>
                <li>
                    You can use any character except the / (slash) character in file names.
                </li>
                <li>
                    You cannot have two files or directory with the same name in the same
                    directory. If you try to rename a file to a name that already exists
                    in the folder you are working in, dCache will not allow it.
                </li>
                <li>
                    File and directory names are case sensitive, so the file name
                    Test-File.txt is not the same as TEST-FILE.txt.
                </li>
            </ol>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>9.</td>
        <td align="center">Download</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Download a file, right-click it and select <b>Download</b> from the
            context menu.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>10.</td>
        <td align="center">Delete</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Deleting a file remove it in a directory. Select the file you want to delete
            by clicking and (or) right-click it then select <b>Delete</b> from the context
            menu. Also, multiple files can be selected for this operation and only an empty
            directory can be deleted.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>11.</td>
        <td align="center">Sharing</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Send files to anyone, even if they don’t have an account. To share a file,
            click and (or) right-click on it then select <b>Share</b> from the
            context menu. A dialog box will be shown, which provide different options
            that can be set in terms of permission and duration for the shared file.
            <p>
                When you click on <b>Generate</b> button, a macaroon, a shared file
                link and a QR code for the shared file link  will be created. Any of
                these can be use to share a file with someone.
            </p>
            <p>
                To view or download a shared file. Copy and pasted the link sent to
                you inside the browser and dCache View will handle the rest. If it
                is a macaroon that was sent to you; go to the dCache View page and
                clicked <i>shared-files</i>, which is the orange circular button on
                the left hand side of your screen. On that page, click the circular
                button with the cross icon at bottom right of the screen. A "<b>Add
                a Shared File</b>" dialog box will be shown, paste the macaroon
                inside the text box and click the add button.
            </p>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>12.</td>
        <td align="center">Context menu</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Provide list of possible actions or operations that can be perform
            or a file(s) or directory(ies). Also, provide a way to retrieve
            some backend information.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>13.</td>
        <td align="center">
            <p>Keyboard Shortcuts</p>
            <p>&</p>
            <p>Multiple selection</p>
        </td>
        <td align="justify">
            Support shortcuts for multiple selection, like:
            <table>
                <tr>
                    <td>Key or Key Combination</td>
                    <td>What it does</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>Click on a file + up arrow key</td>
                    <td></td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>Click on a file + down arrow key</td>
                    <td></td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>Control (or Command for Mac) key + mouse click</td>
                    <td></td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>
                        Shift key + mouse click
                    </td>
                    <td></td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>
                        Shift or Control (or Command for Mac) key with the up arrow key
                    </td>
                    <td></td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>
                        Shift or Control (or Command for Mac) key with the down arrow key
                    </td>
                    <td></td>
                </tr>
            </table>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>14.</td>
        <td align="center">Drag & drop</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Use drag and drop to move or upload file/s.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <tr>
        <td>15.</td>
        <td align="center">Quality of service</td>
        <td align="justify">
            View the backend capabilities by right-clicking inside
            and able to update or modify specific file QoS
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>16.</td>
        <td align="center">User profile</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Shows detail user information with some few knobs that user can use
            to set or remove some certain preferences.
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>

#### Upcoming 

List of planned features and their progress


#### How to request a feature

If you have any suggestions on our features, please submit feedback on our feature requests [here]().

## How To

This is a list of 

- [make dCache View aware of the OpenID set up](docs/how-tos/open-id.md)

## Versioning

For the versions available, see the [tags on this repository](https://github.com/dCache/dcache-view/tags) 
for the prebuilds and [the nexus]() for the build ones. 

## Contributors

dCache View is part of dCache project, which is a joint venture between Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron, 
[DESY](https://www.desy.de/en), Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, [FNAL](https://www.fnal.gov/) and 
Nordic DataGrid Facility, [NDGF](https://neic.no/nt1/).

## How to contribute

Please read [contributing instruction](CONTRIBUTING.md#Submitting-Pull-Requests) for details on our code of 
conduct, and the process for submitting pull requests to us. Also, if you hit an unknown bug, please 
[check here](CONTRIBUTING.md#Filing-Issues) for instructions on how to report a bug.

## License

The project is licensed under __AGPL v3__ - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details


## Acknowledgments

Commit message:

- Update README.md   - Add docs/how-tos/share-file.md

README.md, after:

dCache View
===========

### Table of Contents

1. [Introduction](#Introduction)
2. [Getting Started](#Getting-Started)
    - [Prerequisites](#Prerequisites)
    - [Build](#Build)
    - [Update](#Update)
3. [Features](#Features)
    - [List of available Features]()
    - [Upcoming Features]()
    - [How to request a Feature]()
4. [How to](#How-To)
    - [make dCache View aware of the OpenID set up](docs/how-tos/open-id.md)
    - [share a file and view a shared file](docs/how-tos/share-file.md)
5. [Versioning](#Versioning)
6. [Contributors](#Contributors)
7. [How to contribute](#How-to-contribute)
8. [License](#License)
9. [Acknowledgments](#Acknowledgments)


## Introduction

dCache View is a web application client for [dCache](https://dcache.org). Basically, it 
provide user interface for dCache to the end users, which enable users to interact with 
dCache storage system effortlessly. 

To see how dCache View look like and to have a feel about the application, try our live 
test machine called [Prometheus](https://prometheus.desy.de:3880). This test machine is 
a small dCache instance running the latest development build of dCache with the latest 
released version of dCache View.

## Getting Started

dCache View is part of [Frontend service](https://www.dcache.org/manuals/Book-5.0/config-frontend.shtml) 
in dCache. It uses the RESTful API in the frontend for most of the namespace operation. 
Also, it uses [WebDAV services](https://www.dcache.org/manuals/Book-5.0/config-frontend.shtml) 
for macaroon, read operation, write operation etc. 

A running dCache instance comes with dCache View. If you are running a system test, you can 
skip this process, since the default layout in system test come with frontend services running 
on different ports. In this case, dCache View will be running in these following: 
http://localhost:3880/ and https://localhost:3881/.

However, if you are interested in other packages apart from the system test, enabling dCache View 
is as simple as starting or adding a frontend service/door to your dCache domain. Say for example, 
you have a single domain called `dCacheDomain`, inside your layout file, which should be located 
at `/etc/dcache/layouts/<name-of-your-layout-file>.conf`. To add the frontend service just add the 
following: `[dCacheDomain/frontend]` also don't forget to add the WebDAV door, as pointed earlier 
dCache View relies on it. Finally, restart your dCache instance. Hence, your layout file should 
look like this:

```text
[dCacheDomain]
.
.
.

[dCacheDomain/webdav]
.
.
.

[dCacheDomain/frontend]

.
.
.
```

By default, dCache View is served from port 3880 but this is configurable 
(see [dCache book](https://www.dcache.org/manuals/book.shtml) for full details on what and how 
to configure all the necessary properties for both webDAV and frontend door).


Ideally, the top of all the supported branches in dCache View [repository](https://github.com/dCache/dcache-view) 
are production ready. If you are brave and want to live on the hedge or fiddle around with 
the source code, you can run the latest version of dCache View but first you need to make 
sure you have [these](#Prerequisites) ready. Next, follow the instruction [here on how to build](#Build) 
it and lastly, deploy it to your system by doing [this](#Update).

#### Prerequisites

- A running dCache instance (see https://www.dcache.org/manuals/Book-5.0/install.shtml on how to install 
    and start a small dCache instance)
- **Git** - see https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git on how to install git.
     Your system might have git already installed, check by running the following command: `git --version` 
     from the *terminal*. If you have it installed (or successful install), the result should look similar to:
     ```
     git version 2.10.1 (Apple Git-78)
     ```
- **Maven** - see https://maven.apache.org/install.html on how to install maven.
    After installation (or before installation to check if you have maven installed already), confirm 
    that this is successful, open a *terminal* and typed `mvn -v`. You should see something like:
    ```
    Apache Maven 3.3.9 (bb52d8502b132ec0a5a3f4c09453c07478323dc5; 2015-11-10T17:41:47+01:00)
    Maven home: /opt/maven-3.3.9
    Java version: 1.8.0_181, vendor: Oracle Corporation
    Java home: /Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk1.8.0_181.jdk/Contents/Home/jre
    Default locale: en_GB, platform encoding: UTF-8
    OS name: "mac os x", version: "10.13.6", arch: "x86_64", family: "mac"
    ```
- Get dCache View source code, use either: 
    ```git
    git clone https://github.com/dCache/dcache-view.git
    ```
    or download the zip file [here](https://github.com/dCache/dcache-view/archive/master.zip)

#### Build

Once you've make sure all the prerequisites requirements are met, open your *terminal* and do 
the following:

- change directory to the directory where you forked/downloaded dCache View: 
    ```sbtshell
    cd <path-to-directory>/dcache-view
    ```
- build 
    ```sbtshell
    mvn clean package
    ```
    
#### Update

After a successful build, directory name `target` will be created inside `dcache-view` folder. We are 
interested in these following files:

    - index.html
    - robots.txt
    - bower_components/
    - elements/
    - favicons/
    - scripts/
    - style/
    
How to update your dCache instant will depends on where it is, if it local, it is as simple as copying
those files listed above to `/usr/share/dcache/dcache-view/` or it equivalent. To copy these files and 
directories from the `target` directory to `/usr/share/dcache/dcache-view/`, in the *terminal* typed:
  ```sbtshell
  rm -rf /usr/share/dcache/dcache-view/* && mv -v <path-to-dir>/dcache-view/target/* /usr/share/dcache/dcache-view/
  ``` 
Remembered, this path: `/usr/share/dcache/dcache-view/` depends on your installation and the package 
you installed. For example, in the system test, this is equivalent to: 
```
<path-to-dcache-directory>/packages/system-test/target/dcache/share/dcache-view/
```

In the case where dCache is running on a remote machine, please use one of the method described 
[here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Common_questions/Upload_files_to_a_web_server) 
to deploy or replaced the files listed above with the newly generated ones.

## Features



#### Available

Here are list of features available inside dCache View
<table>
    <tr>
        <th>#</th>
        <th>Feature</th>
        <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>1.</td>
        <td align="center">
            <p>Listing</p>
            <p>&</p>
            <p>Navigation</p>
        </td>
        <td align="justify">
            See the content of a directory with the possibilities of viewing the sub directories
            as well. Double-click any directory or right-click on it and select <b>open</b> from
            the context menu to view its contents.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>2.</td>
        <td align="center">Viewer</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Quickly see the content of a file inside dCache View with built-in viewer. To view
            the content of a file, simply click on it and right-click or just right-click and
            select <b>view</b>, <b>play</b> or <b>open</b> (this depends on the type of file).
            <p>At the moment, you can view:</p>
            <div>
                <ul>
                    <li>
                        Portable Document Format file, that is, files with .pdf extension
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        video files with these file extension:
                        <code>.ogg, .mpeg, .webm and .mp4</code>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        image files with these file extension:
                        <code>.gif, .jpeg, .png, .x-icon and svg+xml</code>
                    </li>
                </ul>
            </div>
            <small>More file mime-types will be supported later.</small>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>3.</td>
        <td align="center">
            <p>Authentication</p>
            <p>&</p>
            <p>Authorisation</p>
        </td>
        <td align="justify">
            There are four options of authentication that are currently supported, these
            are: certificate, openID connect, macaroon and username+password.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>4.</td>
        <td align="center">File Metadata</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Get more details and information about a file or directory properties.
            To view the file Metadata, right-click the file and select <b>View details</b>
            from the context menu. You can also select the file and click info button.
            The file metadata dashboard will be open with the file's properties inside
            it, user can decide to view it in raw or formatted form.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>5.</td>
        <td align="center">Create directory</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Create an empty directory. Either by clicking the create button or
            right-click inside the directory that will serve as the parent and select
            <b>create new directory</b> from the context menu.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>6.</td>
        <td align="center">Upload</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Upload file/s or directory/ies (depending on the browser) into a directory.
            This can be done by either dragging the file/s and dropping it into the
            desired directory or by using the upload button, which allow user to select
            one or more files from their device storage.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>7.</td>
        <td align="center">Move</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Change the parent of one or more files by either dragging the selected file
            into the destination directory (which will be the new parent), or by clicking
            the move button, which will be shown only if file/s are selected.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>8.</td>
        <td align="center">Rename</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Rename a file or folder. Right-click on the file and select <b>Rename</b>
            from the context menu. When you rename a file, only the first part of the
            name of the file is selected, not the file extension (the part after the
            last .) and you usually do not want to change that. If you need to change
            the extension as well, select the entire file name and change it. The
            following are worth noting:
            <ol>
                <li>
                    You can use any character except the / (slash) character in file names.
                </li>
                <li>
                    You cannot have two files or directory with the same name in the same
                    directory. If you try to rename a file to a name that already exists
                    in the folder you are working in, dCache will not allow it.
                </li>
                <li>
                    File and directory names are case sensitive, so the file name
                    Test-File.txt is not the same as TEST-FILE.txt.
                </li>
            </ol>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>9.</td>
        <td align="center">Download</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Download a file, right-click it and select <b>Download</b> from the
            context menu.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>10.</td>
        <td align="center">Delete</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Deleting a file remove it in a directory. Select the file you want to delete
            by clicking and (or) right-click it then select <b>Delete</b> from the context
            menu. Also, multiple files can be selected for this operation and only an empty
            directory can be deleted.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>11.</td>
        <td align="center">Sharing</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Send files to anyone, even if they don’t have an account. To share a file,
            click and (or) right-click on it then select <b>Share</b> from the
            context menu. A dialog box will be shown, which provide different options
            that can be set in terms of permission and duration for the shared file.
            <p>
                When you click on <b>Generate</b> button, a macaroon, a shared file
                link and a QR code for the shared file link  will be created. Any of
                these can be use to share a file with someone.
            </p>
            <p>
                To view or download a shared file. Copy and pasted the link sent to
                you inside the browser and dCache View will handle the rest. If it
                is a macaroon that was sent to you; go to the dCache View page and
                clicked <i>shared-files</i>, which is the orange circular button on
                the left hand side of your screen. On that page, click the circular
                button with the cross icon at bottom right of the screen. A "<b>Add
                a Shared File</b>" dialog box will be shown, paste the macaroon
                inside the text box and click the add button.
            </p>
            <small>
                See <a href="">how to share and view shared files</a> for more 
                details.
            </small>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>12.</td>
        <td align="center">Context menu</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Provide list of possible actions or operations that can be perform
            or a file(s) or directory(ies). Also, provide a way to retrieve
            some backend information.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>13.</td>
        <td align="center">
            <p>Keyboard Shortcuts</p>
            <p>&</p>
            <p>Multiple selection</p>
        </td>
        <td align="justify">
            Support shortcuts for multiple selection, like:
            <table>
                <tr>
                    <td>Key or Key Combination</td>
                    <td>What it does</td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>Click on a file + up arrow key</td>
                    <td></td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>Click on a file + down arrow key</td>
                    <td></td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>Control (or Command for Mac) key + mouse click</td>
                    <td></td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>
                        Shift key + mouse click
                    </td>
                    <td></td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>
                        Shift or Control (or Command for Mac) key with the up arrow key
                    </td>
                    <td></td>
                </tr>
                <tr>
                    <td>
                        Shift or Control (or Command for Mac) key with the down arrow key
                    </td>
                    <td></td>
                </tr>
            </table>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>14.</td>
        <td align="center">Drag & drop</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Use drag and drop to move or upload file/s.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <tr>
        <td>15.</td>
        <td align="center">Quality of service</td>
        <td align="justify">
            View the backend capabilities by right-clicking inside
            and able to update or modify specific file QoS
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>16.</td>
        <td align="center">User profile</td>
        <td align="justify">
            Shows detail user information with some few knobs that user can use
            to set or remove some certain preferences.
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>

#### Upcoming 

List of planned features and their progress


#### How to request a feature

If you have any suggestions on our features, please submit feedback on our feature requests [here]().

## How To

This is a list of 

- [make dCache View aware of the OpenID set up](docs/how-tos/open-id.md)
- [share a file and view a shared file](docs/how-tos/share-file.md)

## Versioning

For the versions available, see the [tags on this repository](https://github.com/dCache/dcache-view/tags) 
for the prebuilds and [the nexus]() for the build ones. 

## Contributors

dCache View is part of dCache project, which is a joint venture between Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron, 
[DESY](https://www.desy.de/en), Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, [FNAL](https://www.fnal.gov/) and 
Nordic DataGrid Facility, [NDGF](https://neic.no/nt1/).

## How to contribute

Please read [contributing instruction](CONTRIBUTING.md#Submitting-Pull-Requests) for details on our code of 
conduct, and the process for submitting pull requests to us. Also, if you hit an unknown bug, please 
[check here](CONTRIBUTING.md#Filing-Issues) for instructions on how to report a bug.

## License

The project is licensed under __AGPL v3__ - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details


## Acknowledgments
